Supplication to the Guru Combined with Words of Advice Namaḥ śrīmāṃ gurubhyaḥ! You have unified the pristine wisdom of the knowledge, love, and power Of the victors of the ten directions and their descendants, And in order to guide beings have manifested in the form of the supreme spiritual friend. To the glorious master, I supplicate! Recognizing your body as the essence of the Saṅgha, The secret of your speech as the essence of the sublime Dharma, Your mind as the essence of the Buddha, and your enlightened qualities and activities as the essence of the ḍākinīs and dharmapālas, I call out to you wholeheartedly-please gaze upon me with your eyes of compassion! O Lord! I and every single being bereft of protection Cannot conceive of another refuge than you. Thus, exalted guru, please grant your blessings That we may be inseparable from now until attaining the heart of enlightenment! Recalling the freedoms and riches difficult to find, the uncertainty of the time of death, Knowing the three realms of saṃsāra to be a mass of suffering, Becoming habituated to adopting and discarding karma and fruition in the proper manner, through all of these, Please bless me that I may become well trained in the common preliminaries! By knowing the guru and the Three Jewels to be the undeceiving refuge, Bringing forth loving-kindness, compassion, and the two bodhicittas, Gathering the accumulations, purifying obscurations, and having devotion to the guru, Please bless me that I may become well trained in the special preliminaries! All phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are imputations of the mind. Mind itself is free from the elaborations of arising, ceasing, and abiding. Please bless me that I may experience the pristine wisdom Of unobstructed clear awareness from within the sphere of non-elaboration! Through the yoga of union of śamatha and vipaśyanā, The state of equipoise unmoved by the wind of imagination, And not being separated from the essence of experience in post-meditation, Please bless me that I may obtain the supreme accomplishment in this life! In brief, please bless me that I may always act in accord with the Dharma, That no signs of obstacles may ever arise, And that having completed the Dharma activities of listening, contemplating, and meditating, May the two benefits be spontaneously accomplished! This prayer, Supplication to the Guru Combined with Words of Advice, was composed by the vagabond Jamyang Khyentse for earnest seekers on the first day of the waxing moon in the month of Phālguna of the Water Mouse year (1852) as it came to his mind. 
